RHDEVDOCS-3878 - 5.4 Release Notes (#44624)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/cluster-logging-release-notes-5.4.0.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//cluster-logging-release-notes.adoc

[id="cluster-logging-release-notes-5-4-0"]
= {logging-title-uc} 5.4
The following advisories are available for {logging} 5.4:

> //link:https://access.redhat.com/errata/ [{logging-title} Release 5.4]

Author: Yes! Didn't want to wait on review for the link because of the size.

[id="openshift-logging-5-4-0-bug-fixes"]
== Bug fixes

> *	Before this update, the cluster-logging-operator utilized cluster scoped roles and bindings to establish permissions for the prometheus service account to scrape metrics. These permissions were only created when deploying the Operator using the console interface but was missing when deploying from the command line. This fixes that issue by making this role and binding namespace scoped.	(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-2286[LOG-2286])

Reviewer: Our current docs supports either of these two options: `cluster-logging-operator` or "Cluster Logging Operator" (capitalization varies). I lean toward `cluster-logging-operator` because that's what users see with `oc`.

*	Before this update, a prior change to fix dashboard reconciliation introduced a cross namespace ownerref to the resource which kept the resource from being created. With this update, removal of that ownerref resolves the issue. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-2163[LOG-2163])

> *	Before this update, changes to the metrics dashboards did not deploy because the cluster-logging-operator did not correctly compare existing and desired configmaps containing the dashboard. With this update, the addition of unique hash value to object labels resolves the issue.	(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-2071[LOG-2071])

Author: I'm aware of the OpenShift Style Guide's assertation that Operator is always capitalized. However, in this case cluster-logging-operator is referring to the specific package impacted by the update -- so would `cluster-logging-operator` be more appropriate?

> *	Before this update, changes to the metrics dashboards did not deploy because the cluster-logging-operator did not correctly compare existing and desired configmaps containing the dashboard. With this update, the addition of unique hash value to object labels resolves the issue.	(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-2071[LOG-2071])

Reviewer 2: @libander Agree.

*	Before this update, the OpenShift Logging Dashboard displayed the wrong pod namespace in the table which displays top producing and collected containers over the last 24 hours. With this update, pod namespaces display correctly.	(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-2069[LOG-2069])

*	Before this update, when the ClusterLogForwarder was setup with Elasticsearch OutputDefault, and Elasticsearch outputs did not have structured keys, the output secret with the default secret used to communicate to the default log store. This update corrects the secret used.	(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-2056[LOG-2056])

*	Before this update, the Logging dashboard displayed an empty CPU graph because of a reference to an invalid metric. With this update, the correct data point has been selected, resolving the issue.	(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-2026[LOG-2026])

*	Before this update, the image included builder tools that are unnecessary at runtime. This update removes those tools.	(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-1927[LOG-1927])

> *	Before this update, a name change of the deployed collector in the 5.3 release caused the alert 'fluentnodedown' to generate.	(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-1918[LOG-1918])

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*	Before this update, a name change of the deployed collector in the 5.3 release caused the alert 'fluentnodedown' to generate.	(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-1918[LOG-1918])
```
```suggestion
*	Before this update, a name change of the deployed collector in the 5.3 release caused the logging collector to generate the `FluentdNodeDown` alert. This update resolves the issue by fixing the job name for the Prometheus alert. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-1918[LOG-1918])

> *	Before this update, the collector was collecting its own logs due to a refactoring of the component name change. This could lead to a potential feed-back loop of the collector processing its own log that might result in memory and log message size issues. This update excludes collector logs from collection, resolving the issue.	(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-1774[LOG-1774])

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*	Before this update, the log collector was collecting its own logs due to a refactoring of the component name change. This could lead to a potential feedback loop of the collector processing its own log that might result in memory and log message size issues. This update resolves the issue by excluding the collector logs from the collection. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-1774[LOG-1774])
```

> // == CVEs

Reviewer 2: Question: Are there no CVEs?

Suggestion: If there are no CVEs, please put the heading for the CVEs and under that say: (None)
Refer to: https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.9/logging/cluster-logging-release-notes.html#openshift-logging-5-2-1-CVEs
That will make the doc look consistent. Thanks!

Author: > Question: Are there no CVEs?
> 
> Suggestion: If there are no CVEs, please put the heading for the CVEs and under that say: (None) Refer to: https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.9/logging/cluster-logging-release-notes.html#openshift-logging-5-2-1-CVEs That will make the doc look consistent. Thanks!

This will be appropriately updated when the errata is drafted.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//cluster-logging-release-notes.adoc

[id="cluster-logging-ocp-compatibility"]
= {product-title} compatibility
The {logging-title} is provided as an installable component, with a distinct release cycle from the core {product-title}. The link:https://access.redhat.com/support/policy/updates/openshift#logging[Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform Life Cycle Policy] outlines release compatibility.

[id="cluster-logging-release-notes-5-4-0"]
= Version 5.4 of the {logging}
The following advisories are available for version 5.4 of the {logging}:
link:https://access.redhat.com/errata/RHSA-2022:1461[{logging-title-uc} Release 5.4]

[id="openshift-logging-5-4-0-bug-fixes"]
== Bug fixes

*	Before this update, the `cluster-logging-operator` utilized cluster scoped roles and bindings to establish permissions for the Prometheus service account to scrape metrics. These permissions were only created when deploying the Operator using the console interface but were missing when deploying from the command line. This update fixes the issue by making the roles and bindings namespace-scoped. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-2286[LOG-2286])

> *	Before this update, a prior change to fix dashboard reconciliation introduced a `ownerReferences` field to the resource across namespaces. As a result, both the config map and dashboard were not getting created in the namespace. With this update, the removal of the `ownerReferences` field resolves the issue and the OpenShift Logging dashboard is available in the console. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-2163[LOG-2163])

Reviewer: Maybe use a space character instead of a tab - I don't know if it matters.
```suggestion
* Before this update, a prior change to fix dashboard reconciliation introduced a `ownerReferences` field to the resource across namespaces. As a result, both the config map and dashboard were not getting created in the namespace. With this update, the removal of the `ownerReferences` field resolves the issue and the OpenShift Logging dashboard is available in the console. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-2163[LOG-2163])
```

Author: Huh. That space isn't in the file itself. Just rendered. Removed & readded it just in case.

*	Before this update, changes to the metrics dashboards did not deploy because the `cluster-logging-operator` did not correctly compare existing and desired configmaps containing the dashboard. With this update, the addition of unique hash value to object labels resolves the issue.	(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-2071[LOG-2071])

*	Before this update, the OpenShift Logging dashboard did not correctly display the pods and namespaces in the table, which displays the top producing containers collected over the last 24 hours. With this update, the pods and namespaces are displayed correctly.	(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-2069[LOG-2069])

> *	Before this update, when the `ClusterLogForwarder` was setup with `Elasticsearch OutputDefault` and Elasticsearch outputs did not have structured keys, the generated configuration contained the incorrect values for authentication. This update corrects the secret and certificates used.	(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-2056[LOG-2056])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*	Before this update, when the `ClusterLogForwarder` was set up with `Elasticsearch OutputDefault` and Elasticsearch outputs did not have structured keys, the generated configuration contained the incorrect values for authentication. This update corrects the secret and certificates used.	(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-2056[LOG-2056])
```

* Before this update, Elasticsearch was unable to return to the ready state when the `elasticsearch-signing `secret was removed. With this update, Elasticsearch is able to go back to the ready state after that secret is removed.	(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-2171[LOG-2171])

* Before this update, the change of the path from which the collector reads container logs caused the collector to forward some records to the wrong indices. With this update, the collector now uses the correct configuration to resolve the issue.	(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-2160[LOG-2160])

* Before this update, clusters with a large number of namespaces caused Elasticsearch to stop serving requests because the list of namespaces reached the maximum header size limit. With this update, headers only include a list of namespace names, resolving the issue.	(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-1899[LOG-1899])

> * Before this update, the OpenShift Logging dashboard use to show number of shards 'x' times bigger than actual value when Elasticsearch has 'x' nodes. This was because it was printing all primary shards for each ES pod and processing sum on it while the output is always for the whole ES cluster. With this update, the calculation has been corrected.	(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-2156[LOG-2156])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Before this update, the OpenShift Logging dashboard showed the number of shards 'x' times bigger than actual value when Elasticsearch has 'x' nodes. This was because it was printing all primary shards for each ES pod and processing sum on it, while the output is always for the whole ES cluster. With this update, the calculation has been corrected.	(link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-2156[LOG-2156])
```
